Hi, I'm Larry Coope, Apple engineer.
This video builds on Part 1 and
focuses on leveraging system
technologies to make your application
faster and more responsive.
Today we're going to talk about
taking the best advantage of
the OS and the frameworks that
are built into the iPhone OS.
I want to contrast Part 2 versus
what we talked about in Part 1.
In Part 1, we talked about code flow and
data in a sort of abstract sense.
In Part 2 today,
we're going to talk about the
implementation realities of building
an application and extending
its functionality day to day.
So implementation realities.
And how are they relevant to
an effective architecture?
Well, we want to talk about specific
areas like UI table view,
UI image,
adding concurrency with NS operation,
and working with system view hierarchies.
And we're going to hopefully
see lots of code along the way.
If we talk about the title
of this presentation,
Effective iPhone
Application Architecture,
what does it mean to have
an effective architecture?
What makes it effective?
And for me as an engineer,
I think the number one
thing is it's flexible.
It's easy to update and add features to.
Good architecture leverages the OS,
and that helps it be
robust and efficient.
And that ability to leverage
the OS to the fullest is very
important because it lets you,
as a developer, be lazy.
Take advantage of the hundreds or
thousands of man-years of code that's
been built by Apple that's there
for you to take advantage of and do
your bidding inside your application.
And to do that,
you really have to have a knowledge
of the available technologies.
And this means going deeper every day.
As you extend your app's functionality
or you build another app,
you need to make sure that you spend
time understanding these APIs and
get the proper usage of those
APIs so that you can benefit and
not have to reinvent the wheel every
time you write your application.
These things are there for you to use.
Historically,
I've seen developers spend days or
even weeks taking time to write code,
and I sit down with them, and I say,
by the way, do you know that there's a
single function that does that?
And they can get very upset.
And we're going to talk about that today,
about understanding the OS and
making sure that you don't waste
time reworking system plumbing and
taking advantage of those frameworks
to get the best possible benefit.
So let's get right to it.
I want to talk about specific examples
and how they affect your application no
matter what kind of app you're building.
So let's talk about UI table view.
Nearly every app has
at least one of these,
and they convey a lot of
information to the user.
But we see some symptoms and
we see some problems with other
applications in the App Store.
And the number one being that
their UI table views have some
scrolling or performance issues.
So before we can talk about that,
I want to review the
UI table view structure.
So as you can see,
there's quite a bit going on inside
the UI Table View cell structure.
And of course,
it already starts pretty complex.
But then when I go into
accessory mode or edit mode,
I start to see even more
views built into that system.
And then when we select something,
in fact,
we insert another background view in
there to show that highlighted state.
And then, of course,
you as the user of the
cell in your client app,
you may want to show quite a
bit of information in there.
So why does this matter?
And how is this related to an effective,
performant, efficient architecture?
Well, it matters because composited
drawing performance.
It's important to remember that UIKit is
fully and pervasively composited.
And I want to emphasize that this is
not an opt-in or an opt-out strategy.
It is a composited system.
And this significantly impacts how
you write your code because you
might be in unfamiliar territory.
If you're coming from other platforms,
this may not be something
that you're used to.
And it can have a dramatic ripple
effect throughout the system because
there is a lot of information in there.
So what we want to do is that
potential extra step for compositing
your view into the hierarchy.
So let's go back to the
UITableView cell as our example.
And you can see what can
happen is in a complex system,
a complex view,
not only is the UI complicated,
but I've actually dramatically
decreased my performance if I'm not
careful how these things are built.
So we see in this example that there's
a potential extra composite per
view in that little table view cell.
So this, as I talked about,
has a ripple effect because
composited drawing performance
is important everywhere.
Even though we're talking
about UI table view cell,
I want to emphasize we're
talking about general issues.
And that composite drawing
performance can affect other
parts of your application.
I see developers who have
serious performance problems
in their UI table view cells,
but they don't understand that they
could get a lot more performance
even in their more static UIs by
understanding compositing.
So UI complexity now not only
impacts your user's experience,
but it impacts performance as well.
And it's important to remember
that opacity does matter.
The system can optimize fully opaque
views through a separate drawing path.
If you're not fully opaque,
then the system will have to
composite you with your views and may
cause some performance degradation.
So how do we get around this?
What do we recommend?
How do we increase drawing
performance everywhere in the system
and not just in UI table view cells?
Well, obviously, simplify.
We talk about in Part 1 about
staying focused and drill
down on your UI and data.
So it's important to do that
here as a performance benefit
as well as a usability benefit.
And you can flatten your
drawing with custom views.
This is something
developers forget about.
If I have a relatively
flat view hierarchy,
and in our example,
for my table view cell,
I've got my little image and
I've got a label underneath it.
If I know that that is always
going to be presented that way,
I can put the,
instead of having a UI image
view and a UI label,
I can put the UI image and the
NSString in a single custom view
and always draw them in that order,
and I will encapsulate
not only my UI items,
but I have one less view to composite.
And so that will definitely
help me with performance.
So besides simplifying to
increase drawing performance,
it may sound trite, but minimize drawing.
It's important, if you can,
to use things like set needs display
and rect versus set needs display.
For complicated view hierarchies,
I can use set needs display
and rect to tell the system,
oh, I'm just updating this corner.
I'm only updating this widget.
So use that judiciously where you can.
And of course,
you need to respect the rect
and draw rect where it makes
sense for your application.
If you know that you can
draw parts of your view,
then absolutely, you should use set needs
display and rect and draw rect.
Make sure that you look at that
draw rect because that is going
to be the dirty rect of your
region that needs to be drawn.
And also, as we're talking about today,
this is all about understanding the
OS drawing and updating policies.
When I see developers
setting view.opaque is no,
and then I ask them why
are they doing that,
and they're not sure, that's a problem.
View.opaque is yes by
default for a reason.
That makes sure that the system can
take that optimized drawing path
through the code where it makes sense.
And as I talked about in Part 1,
never call draw rec directly.
It's important that this, in this system,
which is a true
Windows Server-based system,
that you understand that you
should never call draw rec.
You should call set needs display
or set needs display in rec.
That simply sets a bit.
As I said earlier,
if you call draw rec directly,
not only will you probably
not draw properly because
the context isn't set up,
but you're actually taking a
performance hit because by setting needs
display or set needs display in rec,
you're simply telling
the system that this,
this object needs to be invalidated
and drawn at some later time.
So never call draw rec directly.
One of the other symptoms we
see in a UI table view cell
is highlighting problems.
And again, let's review highlighting and
selection briefly before we go on.
When we select something
in a UI table view cell,
there's several things that happen.
First, we save off the highlighted,
opaque, and background color properties
of all the views in that system.
And this is interesting because
highlighted and the set highlighted
methods are not required by all UI views.
But if you support it,
we check for that using
response to selector,
and we save off that state.
Then we insert that background view.
Then we set all the views opaque property
and background color and highlight it.
Opaque is set to no,
background color is set to clear color,
and the highlighted
state is now set to yes,
if your view supports
that highlighted method.
Now, when we deselect,
we start the fade of that selected
background view that we inserted earlier.
At the halfway point,
we reset the highlighted state,
And at the end of the animation,
we reset the opaque and
background color properties.
So now that we've reviewed that,
why does this matter?
It's simply because these highlighting
problems come about because people
don't understand API compliance.
Your derived objects should
be aware of what they're
responsible for implementing.
And in this particular
case of UITableViewCell,
you're responsible if you want to
respond to those states to implement set
highlighted and the highlighted methods
on your objects in your view hierarchy.
And it's also important to remember
that we're in an object-oriented system.
So you need to trust
UIKit to do the right thing.
And for UI table view cells,
I see developers polling
for the highlighted state,
but there's no need to do that.
Especially as you saw in our example,
when I'm deselecting the view,
it's actually an animation state.
So polling can be highly problematic.
So you need to understand and trust
UIKit to do the right thing for you
and tell you what your state is,
and then when you are asked to draw,
you draw on that state.
So API compliance is critical to
get the best possible experience
for your users and your code.
So we've talked about UI TableViewCell
as an implementation reality
in building our architecture.
Now I want to talk about UIImage.
And unlike UITableViews,
every application uses these.
Lots of applications use TableViews,
but every application uses UIImage.
So I want to look at two of the
primary loading APIs inside UIImage.
Image Named and Image with
Contents of File.
And what's interesting here
is we're looking at our table,
is that there's some small
differences and some very big
differences between the two.
In Image Named, it takes a simple name
inside your bundle.
Image with Contents of File takes a full
path to a file that you want to load.
But here's where the
big differences come in.
Decompression.
Image Named is an immediate load.
That means when you call Image Named,
it goes out to disk, loads that,
decompresses,
and that image is ready to use right
now on the return from that function.
Image with Contents of File, as we say,
is lazily loaded.
The data is memory mapped in,
but no decompression happens
unless you actually try and
put that image on screen.
Also, Image Named is cached by the OS.
Image with Contents of File is not.
So every instance of Image with Contents
of File gives me a fresh instance.
If I call Image Named with
myimage.png a thousand times,
I'm going to always
get that cached image.
So there's a big performance win
there by having it in the cache.
Now under iPhone OS 3.0,
these are both purgeable by the system,
which means that not the object,
but the backing store,
the data behind that object,
can be flushed and recovered
in low memory situations.
And when memory is recovered,
the system knows how to automatically
go out and reload that image for me.
So this is really powerful technology.
So how is this relevant
to our session today?
Well,
simply by choosing the appropriate API,
I can get dramatic behavior
changes in my application.
So based on the application context,
it's important to understand the behavior
of these very frequently used APIs.
So let's talk about how we
use image name properly,
given the differences between image
named and image with contents of file.
Certainly,
we want to use it for UI components that
we're using frequently inside the system.
Button backgrounds,
in our table view cells,
any edit accessory views,
anything like that that you're
going to use frequently.
But also it's important to
remember what not to do,
and that means try to avoid
too many of these in one spot.
Especially in inside application did
finish launching or view did load,
or can it dramatically
affect the load times.
Remember, these are blocking loads.
Everything has to be prepared every time.
So this can dramatically slow down your
app or view loading if you're trying to
load these in a loop or as a large set.
So just be aware of that.
And it's important to point out
that iPhone OS itself uses image
name to load nib-referenced images.
Just be aware of that.
If you've got, you know,
lots of complicated UI with
lots of image backgrounds,
you may want to break that up into
separate nibs to speed up loading.
Using image with contents of file.
Well, obviously, this,
since it's not cached,
this should be used for any images
that will not be needed immediately.
Obviously, you know,
used infrequently or rarely.
So the important point to point out here
is if you're going to put up an image
in a view that comes up infrequently,
you absolutely want to use image
with contents of file because I don't
want to use image name in that case
because I want to avoid putting
image pressure on the image cache.
Lawrence Coope I have the image cache
dump out a frequently used image
for one that's almost never used.
So it's important to use image
with contents of file to make
sure you do not put unnecessary
cache pressure on the system.
Obviously, since this image with contents
of file takes a full path,
this is used for all
non-resource bundle images,
anything outside your bundle.
But remember that I can use
it for bundle resources.
It's pretty trivial.
You can see in one line of code
here how I can get a resource path,
a full path,
to any image inside my bundle so I can
put my rarely used images inside my
bundle and have direct access to them,
but I can load them
lazily anytime I want.
So you are free to use image with
contents file for your resource-based
images as well as image named.
So let's not forget what
UI image is wrapping.
Under the hood, it's CG image.
And CG image is part of the
core graphics framework.
And CG, core graphics in general,
provides a very deep,
wide set of functionality.
Remember I said earlier
that there's hundreds,
if not thousands,
of manures inside these frameworks,
and we want you to take the
best advantage of these.
And this is a common iPhone OS theme.
We provide these very powerful,
lightweight wrappers that
encapsulate this incredible
technology under the hood.
And those wrappers provide trivial access
to and from the underlying components.
In this case,
It's one line to get the
CG image out of that UI image.
Then it's available to you to drop
down into the core graphics layer
and do all sorts of interesting
things with those images.
And inversely, it's also trivial,
one line again,
to go from the CG image to a UI image,
which is expected
everywhere inside UIKit.
That's the component,
that's the object that
you need to pass around.
So it's easy, given that you've
manipulated your CG image,
to go back and generate a UI image.
So looking back at our agenda,
we've talked about UI image.
Now we want to talk about
my favorite subject,
adding concurrency with NSOperation.
But first, what, why, where, how?
What is concurrency?
Obviously, this is doing more than
one thing at a time.
We call it multi-threading
or simply threading.
But I get a lot of questions
about why do I need to even
bother with this technology?
It's important because we want to keep
the UI as responsive as we can and
to leverage idle system resources,
especially the CPU.
And this is important even on
single core processor machines.
You can definitely get a
dramatic performance win,
as you'll see in my demo later,
even on a single core by using
multithreading and NS operation.
But we often have to talk about
where can I take advantage
of concurrency and threading?
Well, obviously,
any intensive computation.
You don't want to block the user
experience in the UI because you need
to go off and calculate some data set,
or you need to parse some incoming XML,
or you're going to do some image
manipulations on the phone.
You don't want to block those
operations in a synchronous way.
Also, any sort of significant disk I.O.
can really benefit from threading.
And accessing large data sets, of course.
And I want to point out non-uniform data.
Non-uniform data like image data,
where I don't know the compression rate,
the size of the images, I don't have,
you know, an order N computation here.
I don't know how long each
operation is going to take.
So this is really where you
can benefit from threading.
Of course, importing data as well,
which is another significant
disk IO operation.
But when I talk about
where to take advantage,
it's important to point out that
you instrument your code before you
decide if threading is right for you.
Concurrency isn't always a win.
You must make sure that you give
the system enough work to do.
I don't want to instantiate a
thread and incur all that overhead
just to add A plus B together.
So you need to make sure first that the
granularity of your problem is correct,
that you have enough work for
that NS operation to do that
task to make it beneficial.
Thank you.
So just as important about
talking where to take advantage,
we need to talk about
where to avoid concurrency.
And the number one problem
area is networking.
Remember, these networking operations
are very high latency.
We don't want to use the full power of
the CPU to spend time waiting for our
data to come down from the network.
And for those networking situations,
we have built-in asynchronous APIs where
the system will handle that concurrency
for you as part of its run loop.
And it's important when
you're doing these networking
operations to avoid blocking.
You want to avoid these synchronous
API calls that will leave your users
waiting for their data to be downloaded.
Example,
NSData has a knit with contents of URL.
If you call that directly,
the system is going to block while
it's waiting for that data to download.
The asynchronous APIs will let
you get around that and avoid
those blocking situations.
reachability.
It also has asynchronous APIs that
you should use that prevent you
from blocking the user's experience.
And one of my favorite areas,
don't use concurrency and threading
for idle behaviors or idle operations.
We have much better
constructs that can be used.
Like NS-Timer.
Don't use threading for idle behaviors.
Remember, NS-Timer gives you this nice
regular heartbeat into the
system and it's very easy to use.
And there's no reason to use threading
in that particular situation.
So historically,
the challenge has been with
threading that threading has
always been kind of hard.
And as I say, I think it's really hard,
especially when you talk about
managing your state of your
application and its data across
multiple threads in a shared way.
This becomes very difficult.
And the interesting thing is iPhone
OS and NS Operation make it a lot easier.
And you're going to see how in a minute.
How do we simplify
concurrency using NSOperation?
The most important thing is keep
object access confined to one thread.
One object, one thread.
This is absolutely the safest pattern
for implementing concurrency in your app.
Then you can forget about locking,
signaling, sync points, mutexes,
semaphores.
All these things that are highly
problematic for a traditional
threading model go away.
An NSOperation and NSOperationQ provide
this one-to-one mapping,
one object, one thread,
this very safe pattern for concurrency.
So let's talk about NSOperation.
And I feel it's compelling
object-oriented encapsulation.
NSOperation provides everything you
need for implementing that task.
It encapsulates your code and your data,
your state.
You can query for if it's executing,
it's finished, has it been canceled.
And it allows you to set up
dependencies between operations.
I can tell the system in a single
operation queue I want this operation
to depend on this other operation.
That means that this other operation
must finish first before the previous
operation will even begin to execute.
very, very powerful stuff.
And I can set priority in my queue.
So I can put arbitrary
operations on the queue and say,
I want this one to have a high priority
and this one to have a low priority.
And the system handles all this for me.
And the thing I love about NSOperation
and NSOperationQ is it's really
easy to add to existing code.
Sure, you have to refactor your
existing functionality,
but that's always a good thing.
I always talk about factoring your code
to make it more flexible and reusable.
And by using NSOperation,
it kind of pushes you in that
direction of factoring your code.
And again,
the heavy lifting is all done for me,
and you'll see in the demo how
easy it is to use NSOperation.
Also, for NSOperation Queue
and its encapsulation,
it provides all the things that you
would want in a queue-based system.
I can suspend or resume the queue.
And I can trivially change the number
of concurrent active operations,
so I can throttle up or throttle down how
much load I want to put on the system.
Very, very interesting.
So NSOperation and NSOperationQ.
They're very easy, but yes,
you still have to write code.
You subclass NSOperation
and override one method,
main.
Now typically, of course,
you'll override, you'll have a designated
initializer that you'll provide,
and you'll typically override DLAC.
But main is really the workhorse.
That's all you have to do.
You create the operation and you give
it the data it needs to do its work.
Again, we're talking about transferring
ownership of the data.
Do not share data.
You transfer the ownership of that.
You pass the array it's going to work on.
You pass that XML data
into the operation.
You do not share it between objects.
You create an NSOperationQueue
and add your operations to it.
You never, ever have to over or
subclass NSOperationQueue.
Only NSOperation.
When the operation finishes,
you simply use the result.
So I have a slide here,
which will show us
concurrency illustrated.
First, we're going to create,
here's some code, we're going to create
our NSOperationQueue.
I have my alloc and init.
And in this case,
I'm going to set the queue
immediately to suspended.
By default, queues are always running.
But for this example,
I want to show you that
we can suspend the queue,
and then we're going to start
building our operations.
And this is code pretty much right out
of my demo code that's going to try
and load and scale an image on the fly.
So my load operation is my
subclassed operation object,
that subclassed from NSOperation.
I have my own designated initializer
called init with path colon.
I'm going to create that operation.
I'm going to set myself as the delegate,
and we'll see why that's important later.
And then I'm going to
add myself to the queue,
and I'm going to release
my operation because,
of course, the queue,
like all good Cocoa objects,
is going to retain that object
since it needs to hold onto it.
And you can see that the objects
start to pile up in the queue,
and then I'm going to set that
queue to set suspended to no.
So now I'm going to see,
I see my animation go,
and I see my objects,
my operations moving through the queue,
being allocated to a thread,
and being executed.
Now again, this is the code.
I do not have to do any of
that plumbing work myself.
This is all handled for me by the system.
Very fantastic.
So, the next step.
You say, great, Larry,
I've done all this work.
I've created a subclass
in this operation.
How do I know when the operation's done?
Well, the beauty is that's up to you.
But I like to use delegation.
Again, delegation,
which we see pervasively
used throughout the system.
And I like delegation, again,
because I get to define the protocol.
I get to define my delegate protocol
that I'm asking my delegates to
implement so I can call them easily.
I can also use notification.
Again,
delegation is great for one-to-one,
and notification is
great for one-to-many.
But that's up to me.
That's my choice.
In this example, in the demo,
in the code you're seeing today,
I'm using delegation.
And it's important to point out that
you're going to see the usage of perform
selector on main thread colon with
object colon wait until done colon.
This is used because typically
most operations perform some tasks,
calculate some values that are
going to be used inside your UI.
And UIKit can only be safely
used on the main thread.
Perform selector on main thread is
used to move execution to that main
thread so I can do UI updating.
And you'll see how that's used
very simply in the demo code.
Again,
we're going to move execution to the
main UI kit thread to do UI updating.
It's very important to remember that.
So, we've talked about that concurrency,
but why is this in a discussion
about architectural relevance?
I think it's very important
because as we move forward with
these very modern OSs and devices,
it's important that we remove the
traditional sequential code flow.
You see it already with
your application delegates.
Application did finish launching.
Application will terminate.
You don't call those.
The system is calling you.
So, you already are starting to
break up your code flow based
on someone might or may call me.
And the idea that we remove these
dependencies on sequential code flow
and break our code up using NSOperation
is a very powerful design pattern.
We get a much more modern,
much more flexible, much more dynamic
architecture that lets me,
again, reuse these components day to day.
And as I talked about,
since you're forced to refactor
your code into this new paradigm,
you get automatic code factoring,
which I said,
we want to break those things down
into smaller and smaller chunks of code
that makes our code much more reusable.
So now I'm going to show you
a demo on concurrency using
NSOperation and NSOperationQ.
Let's look at NSOperation and
NSOperation Queue in Action.
What I've got is a simple little
app here that displays a table view.
And in the table view is a set of images.
Now these images are a bit different
because they're quite large.
1024x768, some are 1600x1200, 900x600.
And you can see if I try and scroll that,
that it's not really scrolling.
If I flick, I don't really scroll,
I jump.
And the user experience
is not very interesting.
So I have a little button here
that's just going to turn on a
switch that's going to let me
use NS Operations internally.
And all of a sudden you see this
very different user experience.
I can go up and down,
and since I'm seeing my text dynamically,
I can move very fast.
And you see those images load lazily.
And in fact,
you saw there that they don't
even come in sequence because
I don't care about the sequence.
They're just loaded on demand.
And so, and in fact,
I can scroll and just wait here,
and you can see that while scrolling,
those are being loaded
and indeed coming in.
And so I have a very
nice user experience.
Now, in a normal app,
you'd probably cache these once
these were built to the proper size.
But what I can do here is I can show
you that I can do really interesting
behaviors now in my app since I'm
not restricted by UI constraints.
I don't have to worry about those.
So these are all being
done in the background.
And I get a great experience.
And in fact,
I can turn on the clear background,
and you can see that compositing
performance is still excellent
because all my real work is done
in the background on NS operation.
And you can see those come in,
and I get really,
and you can see they just
jump in right there for me,
and I don't have to stop doing anything.
And if I want,
I can even put a gradient in there
and change the size again on the fly.
And you can see I still
have excellent performance.
There's a lot of
compositing going on there.
But since I'm doing all my heavy work on
a background thread inside NS operation,
it's really, really great.
See those load lazily.
Let's go to the code.
See how we do that.
All right, let's look at the code
for NSOperationTest.
And you see,
it looks like there's a lot of code.
There really is not.
This ImageHelper class is just for
doing some of the scaling operations.
And we can look at that real quick.
And this creates a CG image
from our UI image scaled.
It's very,
very straightforward code here.
It's very simplistic.
But the important thing we
want to look at is our table
view and our NSOperationTest.
So here's my test view controller.
And what that does is it's
a table view controller.
It's the data source and the
delegate for the table view.
So in our standard
self-heroid index path,
we're being a good citizen.
We're always trying to recycle
existing table view cells.
So I try to dequeue one here.
And if I don't, I create a new one.
And this setup cell simply handles
the case where I'm using a clear
background or a gradient view.
That's all it does.
It's not pertinent to the example.
And all I do is I say I request
image for index and text for index.
And this simply goes into my
data model code and pulls out the
text for the name of the image.
So let's look at the important guy here,
request image for index.
So if we look at that,
here's my image state object.
This is my model object.
It's a very trivial object.
And here it is.
It has a path, a boolean,
whether it has an image or not,
and whether the operation
is queued or not.
These two are booleans.
This is a string.
That's the path to the
image I want to load.
And you can see my implementation,
I literally only have a DL method.
So the rest is done by using
properties on the image.
And that's my model object.
It holds the path and whether
I have a queued operation and
whether the image has been loaded.
So if I'm not using operations,
I simply call my little helper function,
which says go out and load that
image and scale it right there.
That's it.
That's all the code.
It loads it and scales
it on one function.
If I am using operations,
I look at my model object and I say,
do I have an image?
And is there an active queued
operation for this cell?
If there is not,
then I'm going to go out and
create my load scale operation.
I have my designated
initializer in it with path,
which is right out of the slide code.
And I also pass the index,
which tells me which row
this image belongs to,
obviously which table view cell row,
and the target size that
I want for that image,
which I'm acquiring here,
which is just based
completely on the row height.
I simply set myself as the delegate,
and then I add that
operation to my queue,
which I've already created
when the view did load.
Then I release it,
and then I keep my model object in sync,
very simply by saying, yes,
I have a queued operation.
This model object, remember,
holds the state.
So this tells me I have
a queued operation.
And then I simply return
my placeholder image,
which you see initially.
That's all I have to do.
Now,
let's look at the load scale operation.
If we look at that,
it's pretty straightforward.
Here's my declaration.
I have the string,
which is the path to the
image that I want to load.
I have my resultant scaled image,
my UI image.
I have the index,
which tells me which row in the
table view that this belongs to,
the target size for that image,
and my delegate.
So very, very simple.
I have my designated initializer.
And that's it.
If we go back to the code,
here's my designated initializer.
I just retain that path.
I store the index and the target size.
And the dealloc simply
just release those things,
release the scaled image if there is one.
So here's the important part.
Here's my main.
Now here's where you're going
to see something interesting.
I broke out this code.
I could have used that same
helper function that does the
image loading and scaling.
But to be a good operation,
we want to test frequently
if we've been canceled.
And this is extremely pertinent in this
demo because the table view is scrolling.
It's creating these operations on
the fly and then canceling them as
soon as that operation scrolls off
since we don't know if the user
is going to stop scrolling or not.
So as soon as it scrolls off the screen,
you're going to cancel this operation.
So we want to be a good citizen
and check frequently to see
if we have been canceled.
So like all threading,
I create my own auto release pool
and then I just start doing my work.
I call initWithContentsOfFile, UIImage.
And then I test to see
if I've got the image.
And then all this does is
calculate a scale factor so
I get a proportional size.
It's just some math.
There's no big deal here.
I get that scale factor, and then I say,
all right, what is my new image size,
width and height?
I'm simply multiplying
by the scale factor.
And again, I'm checking to see.
I've done a little bit of work.
Have I been canceled?
No.
Keep going.
So then I create my CG bitmap context,
and I set a few parameters on that.
And again, I say, hey,
have I been canceled?
Then let's keep going.
And then all I do is tell the
CG context to draw the image
into the new bitmap context,
because that's going to
give me my scaled image.
And then I release and clean up.
And even here, I say one more time,
have I been canceled?
No.
Then let's go ahead and
acquire the CG image that is
inside that bitmap context.
Then I release everything.
And down again, I look here and say,
all right, do I have my CG image?
Yes.
Have I been canceled again?
Then let's construct a new
UI image from that CG image,
release the original CG image.
And then at the end,
I drain my auto-release pool.
And again, I first test to say,
have I been canceled?
And if I have a delegate,
let's send that message to the delegate.
And here in my operation,
We're going to look at the delegate,
which simply says,
here I declare my delegate protocol,
operation finished scale.
It's actually finished load and scale.
But that's my delegate protocol.
So let's close that.
I've looked at my operation.
And indeed,
in my NS operation test view controller,
you'll see that not only
am I UI view controller,
I also subscribe to the
UI scroll view delegate protocol,
the table view data source protocol,
the table view delegate protocol,
and the table view data source protocol.
And the load scale operation
results delegate protocol.
So I simply declare that
I implement those protocols.
If I go back to the code,
once I do my load scale operation,
you see it's very simple here.
Let's look at the delegate.
So when that operation finishes,
it calls my operation finish scale.
And in fact,
I'm going to check one more time.
If the operation has been canceled,
I just immediately return, right?
I'm done.
And here's the important part.
Now, I test, am I on the main thread?
NSThread is main thread.
If we are on the main thread,
because there's no guarantee what
thread you're going to be called from,
you could be called from the main
thread or you could be called from the
thread which your operation finishes.
That's the beauty of this is that
I don't and I shouldn't care.
And so I ask, am I on the main thread?
If I am,
I go ahead and acquire the table of
the cell for the row at index path.
Remember,
I store my index in the operation
itself so I can recover that cell.
And the really cool thing about this
method is if that cell is off screen,
it returns null.
It returns a nil pointer.
So I know if that cell is on
screen simply by trying to
acquire it and see if it's nil.
So if it's not nil and I have
a scaled image in my operation,
I just go ahead and set that.
And then I tell it I need the
cell to relay out because the
image can be an arbitrary size,
right?
[Transcript missing]
So we've seen the demo and how
NSOperation and NSOperationQ can
dramatically change the
behavior of our application.
But it's important to
reiterate a few points.
NS operation and thread safety.
As I said in the demo,
UIKit can only be safely
used on the main thread.
That's why we have
PerformSelector on main thread,
so that we can move the execution from
an arbitrary thread to the main thread,
so you can do all your UI updating.
And you saw how easy that
was to do inside the code.
Very trivial.
And it's important to remember to
never modify UI state directly from
inside your operation or any thread.
UIKit is not thread safe, so remember,
don't modify any sort of UI state
from inside a secondary thread.
And as we saw in the demo,
we want to transfer data ownership.
We never want to share
data between threads.
It's almost always a bad, bad idea.
We want to maintain that one object,
one thread relationship.
So you need to be wary of things like
NSThread Detach New Thread Selector,
where the target is self.
That means you're probably
trying to share that object and
its data on a secondary thread.
Also, I see developers using
NSInvocationOperation
initWithTarget self again.
When I see that,
that points out to me that you might
have an architectural problem and that
you could run into thread collisions
because you're trying to share your
data and your objects between threads.
So be careful.
So now I want to talk about working
with system-owned view hierarchies.
System-Owned Views, what are they?
Well,
all the SDK-provided high-level views,
things like the Map View, UI Web View,
UI Image Picker Controller,
the Music Player Controller,
these are built view controllers
that are there for you to use.
But remember,
these views are considered private,
and the hierarchy is not
documented and can and will change.
But we understand that you may want to
involve yourself with that functionality,
and we have a supported way to do
that without modifying or changing the
view hierarchy underneath the system.
You can do that by overriding
UI Windows Send Event.
This allows you to insert yourself
into the event chain and watch
specific events as they come
through and change the behavior of
that view based on those events.
But I want to stress that we want to
use an event-independent mechanism
to tie in on UI Windows Send Event.
You do not want to take the event
that's dispatched via Send Event and
pass it through your system.
Events have a timeliness.
They have a lifespan.
So you do not want to send these
things out throughout your code.
So I like to recommend that you use,
again, delegation.
Delegation, delegation, delegation.
Remember, you can then look at the event
and pass it to a delegate without
necessarily passing the event itself.
There are some rules if
you're going to do this.
One,
you must call super send event first.
If you do not do that first,
you have stepped into
unsupported territory.
You can look at the event,
but you can't touch it.
This is important.
That's why I talk about delegating and
not dispatching the event directly.
Look at the fields.
You can look at the location.
You can look at the view
that it's targeted for,
but you should never modify
those fields inside the event.
It will not work the
way you expect it to.
And it's important to be quick about it.
UI Windows Send event is
called quite frequently,
so you do not want to do long blocking
operations inside your delegate if
you're going to support this behavior.
I want to step into a quick demo and
show you how easy it is to do this.
So let's look at overriding
UI Windows Send Event.
What I've got here is a very simple
test application that's watching all
the events that come into this window.
So if I triple tap, in the background,
I get one alert.
And if I triple tap in the button,
I get a different alert.
So all I want to show here is that
I'm differentiating between taps
in the window in different views.
So let's look at the code for that.
All right, so let's look at how we're
overriding UI Window Send Event.
What I've got is my tap observing window,
I'll call it.
And you can see that it
subclasses from UI Window.
And all I've got is a few IVARs in
here that tell me what view I want to
observe and the delegate that observes.
And these are just some housekeeping
IVARs for tracking our multiple clicks.
Again, there's my protocol that
I'm going to declare,
tap observer protocol,
which says user tapped observe
view with taps at location.
So if we go to the
implementation of that,
we can easily see what's happening.
So here I'm overriding
UI Windows Send Event.
And all this code is really just to
pass on based on the number of clicks.
But first, the important thing,
remember our first rule?
I have to call super send event.
Then I'm just doing some
housekeeping to make sure that
I actually have work to do,
that there's a view to observe,
and that I have a delegate.
And then the rest of this code here,
all this is doing is making sure that
we only care about multiple clicks.
And all that's doing,
so we're going to perform a
selector with the forward tap,
which is going to actually
call our delegate based on if
I have more than one tap count.
And that's really all the code is.
That's all it's going to do.
This is just handling multiple taps.
That's all it's doing.
And let's look how it's used.
So in my application,
did finish launching,
what I'm going to do is
for my window that I load,
this is standard code
you see in every app.
It's going to add the view
controller view to the window.
And then I've declared this as a tap
observing window in my interface.
And so when I go back to that,
I know that I have these properties,
delegate that observes,
and I'm going to set my view
controller to be the delegate.
And the view to observe,
I'm just going to set to be
basically the whole view hierarchy,
the view controller.view.superview.
Very, very simple.
And we'll look where this is being
forwarded on in our test view controller.
And this is standard stuff,
except for here's my delegate method.
User tapped observe view
with taps at location.
And all I'm doing is if the
tap count is greater than two,
right, with triple clicking,
that's all we're concerned with
in this simple little demo,
then I determine if I'm
in the button view or not.
And if I'm in the button view,
then I put up one alert.
If I'm not in the button view,
in other words,
if I know where I'm tapping
is in the button view.
If it's not in the button view,
it's just in any of the background views,
I put up a secondary alert.
So very simple to override the
behavior of an existing view hierarchy.
That's good.
Let's go back to the slides.
So we've seen how easy it is to override
UI Windows Send Event and insert
myself into that event behavior chain.
Next,
I want to talk about UI Image Picker
Controller in iPhone OS 3.1.
[Transcript missing]
So let's look at UI Image Picker
Controller in iPhone OS 3.1.
What I've got is a very simple demo here.
It puts up a toolbar,
and we're going to go and pull up
the UI Image Picker in the camera.
You can see I'm live here.
And what I can do,
and what's important here is that this,
you'll notice, is my UI.
It's not the standard UI.
And in fact, if I want it,
I can have a view hierarchy that
covers the whole camera region.
If I liked, with transparency,
it will be compositive for you.
It will work exactly as you expect,
especially if you're doing
an augmented reality app.
In this case,
I'm just going to start taking
pictures every five seconds.
And you can see that
there's my picture taken.
And we'll do another one.
And when I say I'm stop,
it's going to take me back to my
app and just go through those.
It's UI image view just
cycling through those images.
So I have total control over what appears
on top of that camera overlay and also
control of the full functionality.
I can take my own pictures.
I can time it, do whatever I want.
So let's look at how you
would do that in code.
All right.
So let's look at taking advantage
of those new features in the
UI image picker controller.
And it's very straightforward again.
And here's my method,
show image picker for the source type.
So when I tap on that
button in the corner,
this is what it's called.
And the important thing here is
there's some logic to determine if
I'm animating those existing views,
if I'm currently in my
baseline image view.
But here's the important point.
I go out and I acquire my image picker.
So if we look at that real quick.
Let's expand this code.
I'm just asking for the generic
UI image picker controller.
I set myself as the delegate.
But here's where it gets important.
I load my overlay view.
So I'm actually loading my
overlay view from a nib.
And in fact, this is another little
tiny view controller,
right?
It's going to control that toolbar that
we put in at the bottom of the screen.
And this is a very nice architectural
workflow where since I don't
control the image picker controller,
I'm going to put another controller
on the views that I do control.
So again, a very important point here.
So I can actually have two view
controllers on screen at once.
The view controllers, remember,
manage views and the logic within there.
It's not managing screens.
But again,
I set myself as the delegate of
that overlay view because I have
some behaviors I want to listen to.
And so when I go down and look
here again in my show image picker,
once I've got that
image picker controller,
then I go down and look here again
in my show image picker controller.
And so when I go down and look here
again in my show image picker controller,
go ahead and say, hey,
is the camera type available?
And then I'm going to say,
let's instantiate, let's put that Overlay
View into the Camera View.
And I just do a simple,
quick test to say,
am I already in the Image Picker
Controller's Overlay View?
And here's the important line right here.
I simply say Image Picker Controller,
Camera Overlay View is
self overlay view dot view.
That's it.
I do some logic here to make sure
I put my little Overlay View,
my little toolbar view,
at the bottom of the screen.
And that's it.
Then I present that
view controller modally.
Now, if we look at the code for
the Overlay View Controller,
I have some very simple things.
Take Photo,
when I press that Take Photo button,
it calls this method.
And I ask the delegate
to take the snapshot.
Because you'll see what's
important here is that if I'm
already waiting for a snapshot,
then I have to delay that.
But otherwise,
I just tell the Image Picker Controller,
go ahead and take a picture.
Again, programmatic use of that new API.
And that's really basically it.
And here you'll see my Image Picker
did finish picking media with info,
which is what gets called
when that image is available.
And this is standard stuff.
And you'll see some
interesting things here,
which is I still-- here's my code that
I'm reusing again that gets the image,
scales it.
And-- Yeah.
--puts it into the captured images
array that's going to be presented once
I close this Image Picker Controller.
So I have total programmatic
control over the overlay views and
how they interact with the camera.
And of course,
I am taking advantage of not having
to hack any view hierarchies.
And I still get the behaviors I want.
Let's go back to the slides.
So you've seen how easy it is to use
UI Image Picker Controller in iPhone
OS 3.1 and overlay your own views and
take control of that view hierarchy.
Why are we talking about
this in a session dedicated
to architectural relevance?
Apple has a huge investment
in the frameworks and the
APIs that you're using.
So it's important to not
only be a smart OS client,
it's important to be a good OS client.
And you want to avoid unsupported
territory within the system.
Also,
it's very important that you plan ahead.
If things change underneath you,
how will it affect your code?
Will you crash or will you just elegantly
drop that feature as you should?
So you need to spend time with
the documentation and understand
if there's any other way that
you can achieve your goals.
Is there a supported delegate
or notification mechanism within
the system to do what you like?
And what I'd like you to take away
from today's session is that it's
important to know the system and
the OS that you're working on.
Read the documentation.
Understand that you have API choices that
can dramatically affect the functionality
and the behavior of your application.
And those choices can affect how
you design your architecture.
Make sure you try to take advantage
of the high-level APIs first because
they're so simple and easy to use.
But make sure that when you want to,
that you know that you can go
deeper within the system and
there'll still be a fantastic,
rich API set to help you
build your application.
And experiment.
Branch your code and look at alternate
APIs and functionality and experiment
and play with things within the system
and figure out if they will benefit
your application in a better way.
Thanks for watching.
We're looking forward to seeing your
new and improved apps in the App Store.